# Lecture 1: Intro to Defi

Lecture link here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLS01nW3RtgorojSlcoLBPRfoNGzQFywaL 

## Traditional Finance
- Banks and securities/insurance/trust/investment exist in centralized centralized financial institutions
- Hold custodies of customers
- KYC, AML, CFT
- siloed databases and applications

## Birth of blockchain
- in Nov 2008, Satoshi Nakamoto made a research paper with Bitcoin: peer to peer electronic cash system
- public blockchains (distributed systems) maintain an immutable ledger.
- Blockchain with coins like Bitcoin and Ethereum provided the self-custody of money and programmable money and financial assets
- This was the smart contract platform
- In 2014, Ethereum was a next-gen smart contract platform which allows different types of platforms for programmable money
- New way of doing financial services

## What is Decentralized Finance (DeFi)

| Category | Centralized Finance | Decentralized Finance
| -- | -- | -- |
| Money | dollar, pounds, euros | bitcoin, ethereum | 
| Commercial Banking | BofA, HSBC | other | 
| investment banking | chase, goldman sachs | UMA |
| exchange | NYSE, Nasdaq | uniswap labs |

the list goes on for exchange, brokerage, insurance, payments, asset management

## Determining if its DeFi

1. Custody and Settlement (Are the financial assets controlled by the user (non-custodial)?)
2. Transaction Execution (Can someone single-handedly censor a transaction execution?)
3. Protocol governance (Can someone single-handedly censor the protocol execution?)

If the ansswers were No, Yes, Yes --> then you have DeFi!

## What is the DeFi stack?

DeFi is enabled by a decentralized smart contract platform
There are 2 main roles:
1. User
2. Protocol (smart contract) (further: governance)

At the top, you have the aggregation layer which has a lot of aggregators. Each aggregator has several arrows that point down to blocks in the application layer. Then is the protocol layer where there is some combination of exchange, lending, derivatives, asset management, etc. Then is the asset layer which has Native protocol assets shared with the settlmeent layer. Then fungible tokens like ERC-20 or Non-fungible tokens like ERC-721. Then in the settlmenet layer you have Native protocol assets and blockchain like Ethereum.

Users use the services and application and DeFi services are typically made using smart contracts. At the bottom layer there is transactions on the blochchain keeping an immutable log of all of the transactions. 





